#summary How to Install Simbrain

= Basics =

Installing Simbrain is pretty simple: just download, unzip, and double-click on the jar file. However, there are various issues you can run in to depending on your experience with .zip files, and what system you are using.

In steps:

  # Download the simbrain .zip file (e.g. [http://code.google.com/p/simbrain/downloads/list here])
  # Uncompress the .zip file.   
    * On Macs just double click on the .zip file.  A regular Simbrain folder will appear.  
    * On PC's right click on the file and select "extract".   Do not double-click because that will  often just "view" what's in the zipped file, and can  mislead people when they thin, they are broswing a regular folder.
    * [http://netforbeginners.about.com/od/downloadingfiles/f/how-zip-files-work.htm Here] is more information on zip files.
  # Open up the Simbrain folder.  
  # Double click on the Simbrain.jar file.  The Simbrain Desktop should appear and you are ready to go.

= Gotchas =

  * If nothing happens, [http://javatester.org/version.html check to make sure you have java installed].   
  * If you are using Linux, you may have to run from the command line (see below)
  * Be sure you have actually extracted the simbrain folder from the .zip file, and are not just "viewing" what's in a zip file.   If the thing you double clicked is in a "win zip" or "win rar" folder then you have not actually exracted the Simbrain folder.

= Running from the command line =

Sometimes you can't run by double clicking, but  must open up a terminal window or dos window, "cd" to the folder where Simbrain.jar is, and enter the command:

{{{
java -jar simbrain.jar
}}}

This method is also useful when you want to view logging and error messages.