#summary One-Running Simbrain from Source

For those who simply want to run the current version of the code from source, you will need to install (1) the JDK, (2) Ant, and (3) subversion.   Installation notes on each of these is below.   

Once you have installed all three, to run Simbrain, open up a command or terminal window.   To verify you have 1-3 above, try typing 

{{{
javac
ant
svn
}}}

from the command line.   If something besides an error comes back, you have installed them successfully.   

If you get an error, you may have to set an environment variable.  See the section on environment variables below.

To run Simbrain go to the directory where you installed it, and enter  

{{{
ant run
}}}

== JDK ==

Download and install the latest jdk for your computer following instructions [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp here]

== Ant ==

(This is pre-installed on some systems)

Download ant [http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi here]

Extract zip file.  You will end up with an ant folder.  Installation simply corresponds to placing this folder in an appropriate location (for example, on windows, C:\\Program Files\)

See: http://ant.apache.org/manual/install.html

== Subversion ==

Download and install subversion [http://subversion.tigris.org/ here]. Windows users click on "windows binaries", Mac users click on "Mac OS X binaries", etc.

Checkout the latest version of Simbrain by following the directions [http://code.google.com/p/simbrain/source/checkout here]

== Setting environment variables ==

For Windows users, ant and jdk must be added to your path, as follows:

  # Right click on my computer then go to properties.
  # Select the advanced tab and then click on the environment variables button at the bottom
  # Under System variables, select the Path variable and click edit.
  # At the end of the paths, make sure there is a ";" ending the line
  # Add the path to the and bin folder that was extracted earlier (ex C:\Program Files\apache-ant-1.7.1\bin)
  # Add the path to the Java JDK folder making sure that there is a semicolon separating the two entries. (ex C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.6.0_03)